# LexApplication

## Robotics Engineer

### Is it better to work hard or smart?
#### Can you explain your work hard/smart answer above?

You will maximize your potential by first working smart then driving at your work hard. If working hard is intensity, then you will quickly complete your work. If working hard is perseverance, then you will overcome obstacles as they arise until you reach success. If hard is with respect to endurance, you will focus on the moments of success and failure in lieu of hours and minutes, and as you hustle in this paradigm, these moments will define the passage of time. To work smart is to know how and when to save time and effort. To work smart is to learn from mistakes, to fail fast and often in order to grow, to research efficient means and methods, and to make connections with masters and mentors from whom you can learn and grow from. Without working hard, working smart may not persist until success of the work is realized. Without working smart, you will waste your resources (time, energy, choice) which may also lead to the absence of success in your goals. It is best to work smart first before your resources are spent then work hard to maximize your potential once you understand how to effectively hustle, endure, and persevere towards success. My late uncle once said, "Things that are worth doing in life are not easy." He was a smart man whose motto in life was "work hard, play hard". 

###  Describe 1-3 projects you worked on and describe in as much detail as possible the technical steps you took to take the project to completion from beginning to end.

####

I built a robot to sort washers based on color and weight. I developed software algorithms both for a visual system that detected washer color and position and for an Arduino Uno microcontroller that controlled the motor to precisely spin the disk which held the washers to the correct location to pick the washers up using magnetism. This robot won Senior design and sorted washers faster than any other senior design team.

I built a robot to sort washers based on color and weight while on a diverse engineering team. Specifically, the goal of the Clemson University ECE 4950 Senior Design project was to create a system which used an electromagnet to move a washer to a load cell where it could be weighed, and use this measurement to sort the washer into the correct slot on a circular disk. This project required the construction of an instrumentation amplifier for the amplification of a signal output from a load cell. The load cell utilized a strain gauge, or variable resistor, in a wheatstone bridge to provide the output. Before amplification, the measured signal from the load cell changed only by a fraction of a millivolt when loaded. The electromagnet was powered by a Techron 7541 Power Amplifier because the lab's Quanser Q4 board could not supply enough current to power the electromagnet. Through a process of trial and error, the gain and power supply voltages of the instrumentation amplifier and load cell were calibrated to allow for a wider range of weight measurements. Once the instrumentation amplifier circuit was calibrated, the power supply amplifier’s gain needed to be calibrated to provide the correct voltage to the electromagnet. It became possible to interface between the sensor, actuator, and the host PC with precision once I applied an algorithm to rotate the disk containing the washers with incremental degrees for n times. Prior to this, we would send the entire degree of rotation to the Arduino Uno microcontroller, and the board would rotate too far or too short. By telling the board to rotate in degrees that were an order of magnitude less than prior, we could precisely place, weigh, and sort washers by both weight and color safer and faster than any other team. The project resulted in a reliable and efficient system which could distinguish between the weights of an arbitrary number of washers and in response sort them into a desired arrangement which was shown by a MatLab GUI at runtime. I narrated a short video to showcase the project here: https://youtu.be/f9yRaDn7Hp8. 


Talk about the video you made in college
link: https://youtu.be/DdFyWX_hRWY

Talk about the python scripts you made to automate tasks:

I trained a neural network to detect cancer in samples of brain tissue. I wrote bash scripts to automate the Palmetto Super Cluster to train and test hundreds of neural networks on tissue sample datasets provided by the NIH using a variety of different splits of the training and testing data. Using python, bash, and tensorflow, I was able to create a neural network that successfully detected cancer in a random sample of brain tissue with 95% accuracy.

Talk about working with Arduinos to win Senior Design
link: https://youtu.be/f9yRaDn7Hp8

I built a robot to sort washers based on color and weight. I developed software algorithms both for a visual system that detected washer color and position and for an Arduino Uno microcontroller that controlled the motor to precisely spin the disk which held the washers to the correct location to pick the washers up using magnetism. This robot won Senior design and sorted washers faster than any other senior design team. I specifically chose the microcontroller, wrote the C code to drive the stepper motor, and aided in design, budget creation, and object detection using openCV. 

####
####

### Describe the tasks you see yourself doing as part of this position. I value good organization and attention to detail.
- Design casing for sensors and compute that attaches to robot: I own a Photon Mono X Wash & Cure 3D printer, and I have experience developing CAD designs with TinkerCad, and also with printing, configuring, and repairing 3D printers. I can create and share CAD models for custom casing for the sensors and compute that attaches to the robot and I would be more than happy to print them for prototyping and use.

- Choose and configure compute hardware: I imagine reading documentation and spec sheets for any and all compute hardware. In the past, I have relied on digikey, and products such as Nvidia Jestson, Raspberry Pis, and Arduinos to fuel my dreams and passion projects. I would be more than happy to research products, provide suggestions, integrate, configure, and troubleshoot hardware into any given system. I could order parts, measure and calculate power consumption, read and implement documentation, program and debug as tasks. It would be a joy that I would perform welcomingly. 

- Debug and test software and hardware integration: I imagine reading documentation to understand how to effectively program any microprocessor, microcontroller, or other larger scale system. I imagine using my reasoning skills to identify the root cause of a complex system. I imagine writing tests to assert the truthiness the current state of a software or hardware component. I would use voltmeters to test expected output voltages, and SPICE to simulate circuits. I imagine checking my work through testing, reviewing documentation to fill in knowledge gaps, and seeking feedback from communities when necessary.

- Write software (together with me): I would want to know and adopt to your style of writing software. This includes plenty of assertions while testing, long coding sessions if the occasion arrises, creating documentation, and co-working together on any and all software projects. I particularly enjoy Github to track and share code, and I am welcoming to new ideas and opportunities to improve. I have enjoyed hackathons with my friends in the past. We would work brainstorm what apps we wanted to build, and how we could do so. We would identify the process, partition the work, share findings or bugs as they arose, and generally have a good time. 

- Brainstorm robot video ideas: I'm inspired by both science fiction and music videos. As such, I enjoy visualizing music, editing shots to tell a narrative, and capturing features that showcase ability and drive excitement through film. I used to brainstorm videos for skateboarding sponsorships. My friends and I would talk about the different places we could visit and what tricks we would show. We would imagine different angles and music that was would play in the background. We would watch other skate videos for inspiration and then we would go create our own videos ourselves. Brainstorming different applications of the robot or videos to showcase the robot's abilities would be a creative outlet for me that I would productively enjoy. I've always been amazed by Spot and Atlas, and sharing what we've worked on with the world would be a dream come true.    

### Tell me why you want to work with me and how you can help make awesome stuff.

After listening to your podcasts and watching a few of your videos about who you are and what your lifestyle is through youtube, I believe you not unlike Joe Rogan, Elon Musk, Neil DeGrasse Tyson, and Dr. Michio Kaku, are one of the postive influences in the world today. You practice a lifestyle that promotes a growth mentality, and through your podcast I have discovered many other inspirational figures each with their own nuggets of wisdom. Through your podcast I've noticed small yet important lessons on how to better listen and ask questions without fear while engaging in thoughtful conversation. I believe you surround yourself with others who can through their experience bring value to your life, and I have been fortunate enough to have been shared this value through your podcasts. 

Likewise, I am living a growth-mindset lifestyle. I want to continue growing my mind, body, and passions by surrounding myself with people that challenge and bring out the best in me. Through exposure to your content, you've already done so. I am a quick learner who can write and debug software and hardware. I'm determined, friendly, helpful, adaptive, and willing to help. No task would be too big or small. I would simply be excited to get my hands dirty and dive deep into the guts of the software and hardware of any project. I honestly have an inner nerd that geeks out over building robots, robotic swarms, AI, and all things tech, pop-science, and science fiction. Over the last 20 years I've witnessed technology grow and develop from science fiction into a scientific reality. I want to bring that enthusiam to your projects as I assist in any priority and realize the magic and the lifestyle of bringing to life what is once imagination. I hope to invest in, synergize, and realize the opportunity to have fun while making some awesome stuff, sharing that opportunity with the world, and ultimately making and leaving the world a better place for future generations.   